OSDOCS-4928: Docs for cert-manager operator GA (#56754)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/cert-manager-acme-http01.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * security/cert_manager_operator/cert-manager-operator-issuer-acme.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="cert-manager-acme-http01_{context}"]
// = Using the HTTP01 Ingress solver

= Issuing certificates by using the HTTP01 challenge
// TODO: Name

TODO: intro

.Prerequisites

* You have access to the cluster as a user with the `cluster-admin` role.
* TODO

> // * User workload to expose

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * You have a service that you want to expose.
```

> // TODO: ^ from gdoc, what does this mean?

Author: @thejasn @swghosh This was pulled from the google doc as a prereq. Can you explain more specifically what this means? Or if there is a test workload/whatever objects we could add to the procedure to show this?

Reviewer: I've updated the statement to be more specific.

Reviewer: Service would be part of the user's workload (basically up to the user). Any workload the user wishes to securely expose would require a service object.

Author: Okay thanks. I updated this, it's still pretty generic, but I'll leave it as is for now then.

.Procedure

. Create an ACME cluster issuer.

.. Create a YAML file that defines the `ClusterIssuer` object:
+
.Example `acme-cluster-issuer.yaml` file
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: cert-manager.io/v1
kind: ClusterIssuer
metadata:

>   name: letsencrypt-prod                                           <1>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  name: letsencrypt-staging                                           <1>
```

Since the server URL is https://acme-staging-v02.api.letsencrypt.org/directory

spec:
  acme:
    preferredChain: ""
    privateKeySecretRef:
      name: example-issuer-account-key-prod                        <2>
    server: https://acme-staging-v02.api.letsencrypt.org/directory <3>
    solvers:
      - http01:
          ingress:
            class: openshift-default                               <4>
----
<1> TODO: Need description or know if they need to change.

> <2> TODO: Need description or know if they need to change.

Author: @thejasn @swghosh Could use some more details here about what this is "example-issuer-account-key-prod" is supposed to be pulled from, since I don't see any references to it

Reviewer: Answered [here](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/56754/files#r1127604902), the name is a user configurable field.

<3> TODO: Need description or know if they need to change.

> <4> TODO - Specify `openshift-default` to use the Ingress-to-Route controller (for what purpose).

Author: @thejasn @swghosh I did read that Google doc you provided, but couldn't really figure out what to say for why they need to do this. 

Is it REQUIRED that they set this (would it not work if they didn't)? If so, I want to make sure to word it that way.

Reviewer: Ingress-to-Route controller is how openshift implements the [Ingress API](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress-controllers/) from upstream k8s.

Author: @thejasn Thanks. So is it absolutely required that they specify this, or this wouldn't work?

.. Create the `ClusterIssuer` object by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f acme-cluster-issuer.yaml
----

. Create an ingress to expose the service of the user workload.

.. Create a YAML file that defines the `Ingress` object:
+
.Example `ingress.yaml` file
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: Ingress
metadata:
  name: sample-ingress                                           <1>

>   namespace: sandbox                                             <2>

Author: @thejasn @swghosh Question like the other file: Is sandbox the ns we want to say, or do you have another one we should put?  And, does this ns already need to exist before we get to this step?

Author: Updating per answer in the other file

  annotations:
    cert-manager.io/cluster-issuer: letsencrypt-prod             <3>
    acme.cert-manager.io/http01-ingress-class: openshift-default <4>
spec:

>   ingressClassName: openshift-default                            <5>

Author: @thejasn @swghosh Can you give more details about this line and callout 4? Is callout 5 referencing the "openshift-default" class we put in the cluster issuer above? 

And then what is the annotation in callout 4 needed for?

Reviewer: <5> : Is part of kubernetes networking API, https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.22/#ingressspec-v1-networking-k8s-io. As to why the class name is `openshift-default` is described [here](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://docs.google.com/document/d/18A90OEC6nWZocqdzzRs1CUpvL39InaI5q0IAeuI21tc/edit&sa=D&source=docs&ust=1678188022619622&usg=AOvVaw1rNGlx2As9_0hl5d9K61AN)

<4>: Is part of upstream cert-manager, https://cert-manager.io/docs/usage/ingress/#supported-annotations
> acme.cert-manager.io/http01-ingress-class: this annotation allows you to configure the ingress class that will be used to solve challenges for this ingress. Customizing this is useful when you are trying to secure internal services, and need to solve challenges using a different ingress class to that of the ingress. If not specified and the acme-http01-edit-in-place annotation is not set, this defaults to the ingress class defined in the Issuer resource.

The value basically needs to correlate to the ingress class that is being used. `openshift-default` is automatically created as part of the `default` ingresscontroller. Hence the `default` suffix in the ingressclass name.

Reviewer 2: @bergerhoffer @thejasn given the previously created cluster issuer already specified ingress class:
```
      - http01:
          ingress:
            class: openshift-default
```
AND the ingress resource already specified "cert-manager.io/cluster-issuer: letsencrypt-staging" to use the previously created cluster issuer, then this is enough to be a normal usage, it will function well, i.e. these two fields 'acme.cert-manager.io/http01-ingress-class: openshift-default' and 'ingressClassName: openshift-default' can be not needed, (but no hurt if these two exist too I think) @thejasn I suggest remove these two, WDYT?

you can see my https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZUzGBIZVOwqQrEB-M0zE9aAjK8_ue7Gfsxv_jm4XX7Q the "http01 solver" section's first part about integration with ingress, need not specify 'acme.cert-manager.io/http01-ingress-class: openshift-default' and 'ingressClassName: openshift-default'

Reviewer: Without `'ingressClassName: openshift-default'`, a Route won't be created for the created Ingress. We will require this field. Can you verify if a route was created for the ingress in your tests? ([Additional info](https://docs.google.com/document/d/18A90OEC6nWZocqdzzRs1CUpvL39InaI5q0IAeuI21tc/edit))

Reviewer 2: @bergerhoffer @thejasn , yes, routes are created, note there are 2 routes created, see my https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZUzGBIZVOwqQrEB-M0zE9aAjK8_ue7Gfsxv_jm4XX7Q/ the "http01 solver" section's first part's detailed steps and results.

Reviewer: Hmm looks like the field is not required by the `ingress-to-route` controller ([ref](https://github.com/openshift/route-controller-manager/blob/d7a8e22db412b6fabb7028ca0da8de8f3d9ac3c3/pkg/route/ingress/ingress.go#L572-L595)) since it defaults to managing any Ingress that doesn't have `ingressClassName` specified. We may be fine not using this field if the user wants to use the default ingress controller. Since the route will be admitted by the default router in this case. 

If the user wants to use a different (secondary) ingresscontroller (meaning the route to be only admitted by the second router), they would need to specific `ingressClassName`  to be `openshift-secondary`. Agreed that this also requires additional changes to the ingresscontroller (router selectors, etc) but these are documented under ingresscontroller docs. For us the scope ends at `ingressClassName` I think.

Reviewer 2: Yes. I also didn't have time to investigate ingress class, ingress controller knowledge for the secondary ingress class name's test. I agree our doc needs not touch secondary ingress class name for now. If needed for future, we can have more time to test/document it then.

Author: Okay so for now I'm leaving the openshift-default values in all 3 places, and am updating the descriptions to very generic "Specify the ingress class." Please let me know if any of the descriptions should be enhanced

  tls:
   - hosts:

>        - sample.<Ingress_Domain>                                 <6>

Author: @thejasn @swghosh What is this <Ingress_Domain> on this line and callout 8 need to be replaced with? (How do they know the value for it, and is it the same in both callouts 6 and 8?

Reviewer: > <Ingress_Domain> is the default ingress domain name. The ingresses.config/cluster object is created during the installation and cannot be changed. 
`oc get ingresses.config/cluster -o jsonpath={.spec.domain}`

https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.12/networking/routes/route-configuration.html#nw-creating-a-route_route-configuration

Yes 6 and 8 refer to the same value.

>      secretName: sample-tls                                      <7>

Author: @thejasn @swghosh Where is this secret reference coming from?

Reviewer: cert-manager docs explains this bit [here](https://cert-manager.io/docs/usage/ingress/#how-it-works)

Author: @thejasn Perfect, thanks. Does this secret have to exist ahead of time, or will it get created?

Reviewer: The secret will be created by `cert-manager`.

  rules:
  - host: sample.<Ingress_Domain>                                <8>
    http:
      paths:
      - path: /
        pathType: Prefix
        backend:
          service:

>             name: sample-workload                                <9>

Author: @thejasn @swghosh Is this workload that you mentioned was needed as a prereq?

Reviewer: Yes, basically user must have a service that needs to be to exposed.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * security/cert_manager_operator/cert-manager-operator-issuer-acme.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="cert-manager-acme-http01_{context}"]
= Configuring an ACME issuer to solve HTTP-01 challenges

> You can use {cert-manager-operator} to set up an ACME issuer to solve HTTPS01 challenges. This procedure uses _Let's Encrypt_ as the ACME CA server.

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure whether "Let's Encrypt" should be italicized. I'll leave it up to you. AFAIK, we're supposed to italicize variables, words that are defined or explained, words that are identified as words, and occasionally, words that are emphasized. (Source: https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=format-highlighting#highlighting-by-style.)

> You can use {cert-manager-operator} to set up an ACME issuer to solve HTTPS01 challenges. This procedure uses _Let's Encrypt_ as the ACME CA server.

Author: Typo, good catch!

.Prerequisites

* You have access to the cluster as a user with the `cluster-admin` role.
* You have a service that you want to expose. In this procedure, the service is named `sample-workload`.

.Procedure

. Create an ACME cluster issuer.

.. Create a YAML file that defines the `ClusterIssuer` object:
+
.Example `acme-cluster-issuer.yaml` file
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: cert-manager.io/v1
kind: ClusterIssuer
metadata:
  name: letsencrypt-staging                                        <1>
spec:
  acme:
    preferredChain: ""
    privateKeySecretRef:
      name: <secret_for_private_key>                               <2>
    server: https://acme-staging-v02.api.letsencrypt.org/directory <3>

>     solvers:
>       - http01:
>           ingress:
>             class: openshift-default                               <4>

Reviewer 2: Though no problem, it is better to indent as below (see https://cert-manager.io/docs/configuration/acme/http01/ example)
```suggestion
    solvers:
    - http01:
        ingress:
          class: openshift-default                                 <4>
```

----
<1> Provide a name for the cluster issuer.
<2> Replace `<secret_private_key>` with the name of secret to store the ACME account private key in.

> <3> Specify the URL to access the ACME server's `directory` endpoint. This example uses the _Let's Encrypt_ staging environment.

Reviewer 3: See my earlier comment about italicizing "Let's Encrypt".

Reviewer 4: I was confused about the italicized text too, but I am gathering it is a menu item maybe which is italicized. I am not sure where in the style guide it says this, but I defiantly remember seeing it in a style snippet from Andrea.

Author: It's not a menu item, it's a CA. I've removed the italics.

> <4> Specify the ingress class.

Reviewer 3: Should "ingress" be capitalized? See https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/term_glossary.adoc#ingress

Author: Oh yeah you're right. I think I block out that rule because it doesn't make sense to capitalize that to me :wink: 

Will update throughout

.. Create the `ClusterIssuer` object by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f acme-cluster-issuer.yaml
----

> . Create an ingress to expose the service of the user workload.

Reviewer 3: Check the capitalization of "ingress".

.. Create a YAML file that defines a `Namespace` object:
+
.Example `namespace.yaml` file
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Namespace
metadata:
  name: my-ingress-namespace <1>
----

> <1> Specify the namespace for the ingress.

Reviewer 3: See my earlier comments about "ingress".

.. Create the `Namespace` object by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f namespace.yaml
----

.. Create a YAML file that defines the `Ingress` object:
+
.Example `ingress.yaml` file
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: Ingress
metadata:
  name: sample-ingress                                           <1>
  namespace: my-ingress-namespace                                <2>
  annotations:
    cert-manager.io/cluster-issuer: letsencrypt-staging          <3>
    acme.cert-manager.io/http01-ingress-class: openshift-default <4>
spec:
  ingressClassName: openshift-default                            <5>

>   tls:
>    - hosts:

Reviewer 2: Line 89 indents only 1 more space. This may not hurt. But it is better to consist with even spaces, like in all other places.
```suggestion
  tls:
  - hosts:
    - <ingress_domain_name>  
    secretName: sample-tls
```

Author: Thanks! Adjusted the indentation for those 3 lines

>   tls:
>   - hosts:
>     - sample.<hostname>                                          <6>
>     secretName: sample-tls                                       <7>
>   rules:
>   - host: sample.<hostname>                                      <8>

Reviewer 2: The whole string is the "hostname".
```suggestion
  tls:
  - hosts:
    - <hostname>                                                 <6>
    secretName: sample-tls                                       <7>
  rules:
  - host: <hostname>                                             <8>
```

Author: @thejasn I thought you told me that the "sample." part was necessary? 

I can definitely remove it, just wanted to double check (and make sure that the description works well still with it removed).

    http:
      paths:
      - path: /
        pathType: Prefix
        backend:
          service:
            name: sample-workload                                <9>
            port:
              number: 80

> ----

Reviewer 3: - In <1>, <2>, <4>, and <5>, check the capitalization of "ingress". 
- Are <4> and <5> supposed to have the same description?

<1> Specify the name of the ingress.
<2> Specify the namespace that you created for the ingress.
<3> Specify the cluster issuer that you created.
<4> Specify the ingress class.
<5> Specify the ingress class.

> <6> Replace `<hostname>` with the Subject Alternative Name to be associated with the certificate. This is used to add DNS names to the certificate.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<6> Replace `<hostname>` with the Subject Alternative Name to be associated with the certificate. This name is used to add DNS names to the certificate.
```

> <6> Replace `<ingress_domain_name>` with the ingress domain name. You can retrieve this name by running the following command: `oc get ingresses.config/cluster -o jsonpath={.spec.domain}`.

Reviewer: Correction here, 

```suggestion
<6> Replace `<host_name>` with the [Subject Alternative Name](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Subject_Alternative_Name) to be associated with the certificate (aka the secret). This is used to add DNS names to the certificate. 
```

Author: @thejasn The line for callout <6> doesn't have a <host_name> variable. It currently reads like this:

```
    - sample.<ingress_domain_name>                               <6>
```

Are you saying that, with this description change, we should update that to the following?

```
    - sample.<host_name>                               <6>
```

<7> Specify the secret to store the created certificate in.

> <8> Replace `<hostname>` with the hostname. You can use the `<host_name>.<cluster_ingress_domain>` syntax, for example `apps.<cluster_base_domain>`, to take advantage of the `*.<cluster_ingress_domain>` wildcard DNS record and serving certificate for the cluster. Otherwise, you must ensure that there is a DNS record for the chosen hostname.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<8> Replace `<hostname>` with the hostname. You can use the `<host_name>.<cluster_ingress_domain>` syntax  to take advantage of the `*.<cluster_ingress_domain>` wildcard DNS record and serving certificate for the cluster. For example, you might use `apps.<cluster_base_domain>`. Otherwise, you must ensure that a DNS record exists for the chosen hostname.
```

Reviewer 3: The first sentence was a little long, so I did some rearranging to break it up in a (hopefully) logical way.

> <8> Replace `<ingress_domain_name>` with the ingress domain name. You can retrieve this name by running the following command: `oc get ingresses.config/cluster -o jsonpath={.spec.domain}`.

Reviewer 2: If you mean the value of "host: ingress_domain_name" == ingress domain name == output of "oc get ingresses.config/cluster -o jsonpath={.spec.domain}", then it is wrong. It is the ingress name. You can see https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.12/networking/routes/route-configuration.html#nw-ingress-creating-a-route-via-an-ingress_route-configuration explanation of "host" and my example in https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZUzGBIZVOwqQrEB-M0zE9aAjK8_ue7Gfsxv_jm4XX7Q/

Reviewer: As mentioned in the [comment](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/56754#issuecomment-1469517451) we want the sub-domain prefix (user can provide this) followed by the `cluster_ingress_domain` picked from `oc get dns.config/cluster -o jsonpath={.spec.baseDomain}`.

Reviewer: @xingxingxia Does this make it clear?

Reviewer 2: Clear now, great, yeah, good borrowing from from existing doc https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.12/networking/routes/route-configuration.html#nw-ingress-creating-a-route-via-an-ingress_route-configuration about the "host" entry!

Author: @xingxingxia @thejasn Are any changes needed with this line, or are we good?

Reviewer 2: @bergerhoffer yes, needed, this line is incorrect as explained in the first message of this thread, you can just copy the sentences from above route doc about the "host" entry shared by Thejas.

Reviewer: I did provide a different [suggestion](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/56754#discussion_r1136716509) for `tls.hosts` this can added instead.

> <8> Replace `<ingress_domain_name>` with the ingress domain name. You can retrieve this name by running the following command: `oc get ingresses.config/cluster -o jsonpath={.spec.domain}`.

Reviewer: Essentially we have,
-  `cluster_base_domain` from `oc get dns.config/cluster -o jsonpath={.spec.baseDomain}`. Eg: `thn-oc412.devcluster.openshift.com` 
- `cluster_ingress_domain` from `oc get ingresses.config/cluster -o jsonpath={.spec.domain}`. Eg: `apps.thn-oc412.devcluster.openshift.com`

And we want to host on the ingress to be <some-new-sub-domain>.apps.<cluster_base_domain> or <some-new-sub-domain>.<cluster_ingress_domain>.

> <8> Replace `<ingress_domain_name>` with the ingress domain name. You can retrieve this name by running the following command: `oc get ingresses.config/cluster -o jsonpath={.spec.domain}`.

Author: @thejasn I updated to use your suggestion, but did we have to make any changes to what the replaceable value is called up in the YAML? Right now, it's `sample.<ingress_domain_name>`.

> <8> Replace `<ingress_domain_name>` with the ingress domain name. You can retrieve this name by running the following command: `oc get ingresses.config/cluster -o jsonpath={.spec.domain}`.

Author: (Related to another comment too, so if you can just look at both of these to make sure the values in the YAML and the replaceable values are correct, and match the descriptions)

> <8> Replace `<ingress_domain_name>` with the ingress domain name. You can retrieve this name by running the following command: `oc get ingresses.config/cluster -o jsonpath={.spec.domain}`.

Author: Okay so here's how I updated them, please let me know if either needs to be adjusted. The line for callout 8 in the YAML is:

```
- host: sample.<hostname>
```

And the description is:

```
<8> Replace `<hostname>` with the hostname. You can use the `<host_name>.<cluster_ingress_domain>` syntax, for example `apps.<cluster_base_domain>`, to take advantage of the `*.<cluster_ingress_domain>` wildcard DNS record and serving certificate for the cluster. Otherwise, you must ensure that there is a DNS record for the chosen hostname.

```

However, both callout 6 and 8 are using `<hostname>`. Just checking that it's expected that these two lines will use the same value. (If not, then we should update the name of the replaceable value of one of them to be different - let me know.)

> <8> Replace `<ingress_domain_name>` with the ingress domain name. You can retrieve this name by running the following command: `oc get ingresses.config/cluster -o jsonpath={.spec.domain}`.

Reviewer: [This](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/56754/files#r1141810259) should answer one your queries. As for having the same value `<hostname>`, that is as expected.

> <8> Replace `<ingress_domain_name>` with the ingress domain name. You can retrieve this name by running the following command: `oc get ingresses.config/cluster -o jsonpath={.spec.domain}`.

Author: Okay, I am removing the "sample." part now then

----

.. Create a YAML file that defines the `Ingress` object:
+
.Example `ingress.yaml` file
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: Ingress
metadata:
  name: sample-ingress                                           <1>
  namespace: my-ingress-namespace                                <2>
  annotations:
    cert-manager.io/cluster-issuer: letsencrypt-staging          <3>
    acme.cert-manager.io/http01-ingress-class: openshift-default <4>
spec:
  ingressClassName: openshift-default                            <5>
  tls:
   - hosts:
       - <ingress_domain_name>                                   <6>
     secretName: sample-tls                                      <7>
  rules:
  - host: <ingress_domain_name>                                  <8>
    http:
      paths:
      - path: /
        pathType: Prefix
        backend:
          service:
            name: sample-workload                                <9>
            port:
              number: 80
----
<1> Specify the name of the ingress.
<2> Specify the namespace that you created for the ingress.
<3> Specify the cluster issuer that you created.
<4> Specify the ingress class from the cluster issuer.

> <5> Specify the ingress class from the cluster issuer.

Reviewer: `IngressClass` is a separate resource. The ingressclass `openshift-default` is created by the cluster-ingress-operator which is associated with the default ingresscontroller resource. This `ingressclass` is referenced in both the `ClusterIssuer` and the `Ingress`. 

If the user has a different ingresscontroller created say `secondary` which they want to use for HTTP-01, then the `IngressClass` they need to mention would be `openshift-secondary`  ([ref](https://github.com/openshift/cluster-ingress-operator/blob/a29464eda9614ac3d70c185b572f4839195e7306/pkg/operator/controller/names.go#L262)).

I think we should add this information just to make things clear both here and even on the `ClusterIssuer` sample.

Author: @thejasn I'm not quite following. I thought that, at least in the cluster issuer resource, that it was required for the ingress class to be "openshift-default". Is that not true?

If it can be different, can/would be different the whole way throughout the procedure, for both the cluster issuer and issuer resources? For example, if they wanted to use that "secondary" ingress controller instead of the default one, would they use "openshift-secondary" in all 3 places that it appears in the config now, or just in some of them?

(The 3 places being `spec.acme.solvers.http01.ingress.class` in the cluster issuer, and then the `acme.cert-manager.io/http01-ingress-class` annotation and `spec.ingressClassName` in the ingress?

Reviewer: Yes, if the user wishes to use a different ingresscontroller (the `secondary` ingresscontroller) they would need to mention `openshift-secondary` in all 3 places.

Author: Replied in another thread. Kept this openshift-default and generic description

----
<1> TODO: Need description or know if they need to change.
<2> TODO: Need description or know if they need to change.
<3> TODO: Specify the URL to access the ACME server's `directory` endpoint.
<4> TODO - Specify `openshift-default` to use the Ingress-to-Route controller (for what purpose).

.. Create the `ClusterIssuer` object by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f acme-cluster-issuer.yaml
----

. Create an ingress to expose the service of the user workload.

.. Create a YAML file that defines a `Namespace` object:

+
.Example `namespace.yaml` file
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Namespace
metadata:
  name: my-ingress-namespace <1>
----
<1> Specify the namespace for the ingress.

.. Create the `Namespace` object by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f namespace.yaml
----

.. Create a YAML file that defines the `Ingress` object:
+
.Example `ingress.yaml` file
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: Ingress
metadata:
  name: sample-ingress                                           <1>
  namespace: my-ingress-namespace                                <2>
  annotations:

>     cert-manager.io/cluster-issuer: letsencrypt-prod             <3>

Author: @thejasn since you had me change letsencrypt-prod to letsencrypt-staging above, I'm going to update this one as well. Let me know if that's not right

Author: @thejasn Can you confirm that that change was correct?
